Overview
			The TSU Libraries are learning centers whereby students, faculty, and other library clients do their intellectual activity. Each Library offers services and collections specific to the academic needs of the College or Department.

Vision
          The Library Management & Service Office is a facility of the University which provides state–of–the–art learning and resource materials to the clientele.

 Mission
          The Library Management & Service Office, being an active force in informational    research,   teaching   and the like,   shall always    support    the    expanding   instructional programs of the University. It shall provide library materials that are relevant to the needs of the studentry, faculty and staff.
		  
History
		  The TSU Library had a humble beginning in two small classrooms situated at the right wing of the former main building (Gabaldon type) in 1950.  At first, it was only used as a depository of some educational materials acquired by the school teachers, staff and through different sources such as the Parents–Teachers Association (PTA), concerned citizens of Tarlac, personal books of some teachers and other civic minded groups or organizations whose primary concern was to support the curricular activities of the students.  Such contributions were all gathered until finally a small collection of books and other reading materials were organized in this room. As years passed by, the school authorities had recognized the importance of its existence that they finally decided to take a librarian keep and organize the collections. 

          With the increasing needs and demands for library services and the over expanding curricular offerings, in 1971, the administration, headed by the TCT President Jack Smith made the necessary expansion of the library.  Then shelves, tables and chairs were added to enrich the library resources.  Books were purchased and the library received donations from the National Economic Council. 

          Eventually, the continuing growth of the college in its population and additional curricular offerings (i.e. the Architectural and Computer Education) paved the way for the creation of a new library unit at the new engineering building. It houses all professional books for Engineering as well as Computer books. 

Seeing the effectiveness of having an extension library, it has been decided to separate, too, the Graduate School section from the Main Library.  This would house its own collection of books on higher educational approach of learning as well as give distinctive usage of undergraduate books to that of the graduate books. 

          In June 1997, the College of Education has moved to the Lucinda Campus.  All professional books on education and other related topics from the main library were transferred. Within the year, the College of Architecture and Technical / Vocational Institute were relocated at the San Isidro Campus.  In this campus, a new library was organized. Meanwhile, in the same year, the College of Nursing was also established at the Lucinda Campus as a satellite library at the College of Nursing building.

          Law books, as well, have been transferred from the Graduate Studies Library to the School of Law located at the TSU Gymnasium as a reading center for law students was created.

          On August 17th of 2012, the Jose V. Yap Library located at the TSU Lucinda Campus was inaugurated. The Nursing and Education Unit Libraries were transferred to this new building to accommodate more library users. The following year TSU officials also decided to incorporate the Graduate/CPA Library to the Main Library.

          To date the Tarlac State University has eight Librarians and six paraprofessionals with student assistants to serve not only the TSU community but also patrons from other institutions.